zephyr/samples/el2go_mqtt_demo/README.rst, before:

.. _el2go_mqtt_demo:

EL2GO MQTT Demo
###############

Overview
********

This sample application shows how to use MQTT connections to cloud services such as AWS or Azure with preprovisioned keys
and certificates from the EdgeLock 2GO service.

The application is based on the Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) project which allows the execution in a Trusted Execution Environment.
The example is split in two parts: TF-M core and RootOfTrust services are runnig in Secure Processing Environment (SPE),
while the application itself is running in Non-secure Processing Environment (NSPE).

The device on which the example is run must have secure boot enabled, otherwise the blob verification and
decryption keys can't be derived.

The source code for this application can be found at:
:zephyr_file:`modules/lib/nxp_iot_agent/ex/src/apps/el2go_mqtt_client.c`.

Requirements
************

- FRDM-RW612 or RD-RW612-BGA board
- USB-C (FRDM-RW612) or Micro-USB (RD-RW612-BGA) cable
- Personal Computer

Prerequisites
*************

- Any serial communicator
- EdgeLock 2GO keypairs and certificates for AWS and/or Azure already imported to the device (ITS).
  This can be achieved via offline provisioning (with th el2go_import_blob sample) or via online
  provisioning (with the el2go_agent sample). Please refer to their repspective readmes on
  how to perform the provisioning and import.

ATTENTION: It is important not to erase the ITS part of the flash (0x83C0000 to 0x83E0000) when flashing this application,
as this is where the EdgeLock 2GO objects are stored.

Prepare the Demo
****************

1.  Provide the EdgeLock 2GO object IDs of the keys and certificates already imported to the device as well as the
    AWS and/or Azure connection parameters in :zephyr_file:`modules/lib/nxp_iot_agent/ex/inc/iot_agent_demo_config.h`
    (the relevant macros are enclosed by "doc: MQTT required modification - start" and "doc: MQTT required modification - end").
    Details on the different configuration options are explained in the file.

    The values for the EdgeLock 2GO object ids can optionally also be set in the prj.conf file like this:
    ``CONFIG_$SERVER$_SERVICE_KEY_PAIR_ID=0x081000``
    ``CONFIG_$SERVER$_SERVICE_DEVICE_CERT_ID=0x080100``

2.  Provide the Wi-Fi access point credentials:

    in :zephyr_file:`modules/lib/nxp_iot_agent/ex/src/network/iot_agent_network_zephyr_wifi.c`
    ``#define AP_SSID``
    ``#define AP_PASSWORD``

    These values can optionally also be set in the prj.conf like this:
    ``CONFIG_AP_SSID="YOUR_SSID"``
    ``CONFIG_AP_PASSWORD="YOUR_PASSWORD"``
    If these are set in the prj.conf, then it will override the value of defines
    in :zephyr_file:`modules/lib/nxp_iot_agent/ex/src/network/iot_agent_network_zephyr_wifi.c`.
    Furthermore, these values can be set as environment variables, but the values in prj.conf have
    most precedence. Set as environment variable using same names CONFIG_AP_SSID and CONFIG_AP_PASSWORD.

3.  To properly derive die-individual encryption and authentication keys used for provisioning of EdgeLock 2GO Secure Objects,
    the secure boot mode should be enabled and the hash of the OEM FW Authentication key (RKTH) loaded in the One Time Programming (OTP) fuses
    of the device. The enablement of secure boot requires the application image downloaded to the chip to be signed with the OEM FW Authentication key.
    Additionaly, if the example is supposed to run in the OEM CLOSED life cycle (typical for production SW),
    the image needs to be encrypted with the OEM FW encryption key and loaded as an Secure Binary container (SB3.1).
    Details on how to enable secure boot, sign and encrypt the image, deal with different lifecycles are included
    in the Application note AN13813 "Secure boot on RW61x", downloadable from
    https://www.nxp.com/products/wireless-connectivity/wi-fi-plus-bluetooth-plus-802-15-4/wireless-mcu-with-integrated-tri-radio-1x1-wi-fi-6-plus-bluetooth-low-energy-5-3-802-15-4:RW612
    in the "Secure Files" section.

    Zephyr build process supports automated signing and merging of images which will allow the example to run on secure boot enabled sample
    in OEM OPEN lifecycle; encryption and SB3.1 container creation are not covered. As already described in the introduction,
    the example is split in SPE and NSPE images, for this reason some extra steps needs to be done to create the image which can run on the device:
    1. The bootheader needs to be removed from the SPE image
    2. The resulting image from first step has to be merged with the NSPE image
    3. The resulting image from step 2 must be signed with the OEM FW authentication key
    The automated signing and merging process requires SPSDK to be installed and configured on the host PC (SPSDK documentation:
    https://spsdk.readthedocs.io/en/1.6.1/usage/installation.html). After the SPSDK is successfully installed and the path to its executable correctly set
    under the PATH environmental variable, some configuration variables needs to be set for automated signing and merging enablement:
    - CONFIG_EL2GO_SIGN_USING_NXPIMAGE: should be enabled (set to y), it will enable automated signing and merging
    - CONFIG_EL2GO_PRIVATE_KEY: this should include the path to the PEM file including the OEM FW authentication key
    - CONFIG_EL2GO_CERT_BLOCK: this should include the path to YAML file which in turns points to the corresponding OEM FW authentication key certificate PEM files.
      The YAML file can be created using SPSDK command described under: https://spsdk.readthedocs.io/en/latest/apps/nxpimage.html#nxpimage-cert-block-get-template.
      From the created template all the fields can be deleted, except:
      - family: leave the value defined in template
      - useIsk: should be set to false
      - signPrivateKey: path to the PEM file including the OEM FW authentication key (same file as defined in CONFIG_EL2GO_PRIVATE_KEY)
      - rootCertificateXFile: 4 variables with X ranging from 0 to 3 which should include path to the 4 PEM certificates corresponding OEM FW authentication key
    For more details about the keys/certificates described in the readme, always refer to the Application Note AN13813 "Secure boot on RW61x"
    There are 2 ways to define the variables and allow Zephyr build command to automatically merge and sign the image:
    1. In prj.conf file:
    ``CONFIG_EL2GO_SIGN_USING_NXPIMAGE=y``
    ``CONFIG_EL2GO_PRIVATE_KEY="PATH_TO_YOUR_KEY_PEM_FILE"``
    ``CONFIG_EL2GO_CERT_BLOCK="PATH_TO_YOUR_CERTIFICATE_YML_FILE"``
    2. If not set in prj.conf file, then set as environment variable using the same names:
       CONFIG_EL2GO_PRIVATE_KEY,CONFIG_EL2GO_CERT_BLOCK,CONFIG_EL2GO_SIGN_USING_NXPIMAGE.
       Please set them to same value as you would in prj.conf file.
    In case both are set, the variables in the prj.conf will take precedence.

4.  Build the application.

5.  Connect the USB-C (FRDM-RW612) or Micro-USB (RD-RW612-BGA) cable to the PC host and the MCU-Link USB port
    (J10 [FRDM-RW612] or J7 [RD-RW612-BGA]) on the board.

6.  Open a serial terminal with the following settings:
    - 115200 baud rate
    - 8 data bits
    - No parity
    - One stop bit
    - No flow control

7.  Flash the application to the board: as explained in the section 3, in typical production use case the example is encrypted
    in a SB3.1 container. Follow the Application note AN13813 "Secure boot on RW61x" to check how to dowload the container to the device.

    In case the example is running on a device in OEM OPEN lifecycle the merged and signed image can be downloaded west flash command through JLink.
    An alterantive is the usage of the SPSDK blhost application which is decoumented under https://spsdk.readthedocs.io/en/stable/examples/blhost/blhost.html.

Building, Flashing and Running
******************************

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: modules/lib/nxp_iot_agent/zephyr/samples/el2go_mqtt_demo
   :board: <board>
   :goals: build flash
   :compact:

Sample Output
=============

.. code-block:: console

    Booting TF-M v2.1.0
    [WRN] This device was provisioned with dummy keys. This device is NOT SECURE
    [Sec Thread] Secure image initializing!
    [INF][PS] Encryption alg: 0x5500200
    [INF][Crypto] Provision entropy seed...
    [INF][Crypto] Provision entropy seed... complete.
    Wi-Fi cau temperature : 34
    MAC Address: MY_MAC_ADDRESS
    PKG_TYPE: BGA
    Set BGA tx power table data
    *** Booting Zephyr OS build b9f5bf039849 ***
    Connecting to SSID 'WIFI SSID' ...
    Using WIFI 6 (802.11ax/HE) @ 5GHz (Channel 149, -52 dBm)
    Using IPv4 address 172.20.10.4 @ Gateway 172.20.10.1 (DHCP)
    Successfully connected to WIFI
    Attempting to connect to service 'awstest-0000000000c4d709-0000' ...
    Received MQTT event CONNACK
    Successfully published
    Successfully published
    Successfully published
    Successfully published
    Received MQTT event DISCONNECT
    Attempting to register service 'azuretest-0000000000c4d70a-0000' ...
    Received MQTT event CONNACK
    Received MQTT event SUBACK
    Received MQTT event PUBLISH
    Device State is now ASSIGNING
    Received MQTT event PUBLISH
    Device State is now ASSIGNING
    Received MQTT event PUBLISH
    Device State is now ASSIGNED
    Received MQTT event DISCONNECT
    Attempting to connect to service 'azuretest-0000000000c4d70a-0000' ...
    Received MQTT event CONNACK
    Successfully published
    Successfully published
    Successfully published
    Successfully published
    Received MQTT event DISCONNECT
    EL2GO MQTT Client successfully finished

Commit message:

Improve the Zephyr readmes by adding the information of policies for EL2GO objects
Signed-off-by: Bojan Simoneta <bojan.simoneta@nxp.com>

zephyr/samples/el2go_mqtt_demo/README.rst, after:

.. _el2go_mqtt_demo:

EL2GO MQTT Demo
###############

Overview
********

This sample application shows how to use MQTT connections to cloud services such as AWS or Azure with preprovisioned keys
and certificates from the EdgeLock 2GO service.

The application is based on the Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) project which allows the execution in a Trusted Execution Environment.
The example is split in two parts: TF-M core and RootOfTrust services are runnig in Secure Processing Environment (SPE),
while the application itself is running in Non-secure Processing Environment (NSPE).

The device on which the example is run must have secure boot enabled, otherwise the blob verification and
decryption keys can't be derived.

The source code for this application can be found at:
:zephyr_file:`modules/lib/nxp_iot_agent/ex/src/apps/el2go_mqtt_client.c`.

Requirements
************

- FRDM-RW612 or RD-RW612-BGA board
- USB-C (FRDM-RW612) or Micro-USB (RD-RW612-BGA) cable
- Personal Computer

Prerequisites
*************

- Any serial communicator
- EdgeLock 2GO keypairs and certificates for AWS and/or Azure already imported to the device (ITS).
  This can be achieved via offline provisioning (with th el2go_import_blob sample) or via online
  provisioning (with the el2go_agent sample). Please refer to their repspective readmes on
  how to perform the provisioning and import.

ATTENTION: It is important not to erase the ITS part of the flash (0x83C0000 to 0x83E0000) when flashing this application,
as this is where the EdgeLock 2GO objects are stored.

Prepare the Demo
****************

1.  Provide the EdgeLock 2GO object IDs of the keys and certificates already imported to the device as well as the
    AWS and/or Azure connection parameters in :zephyr_file:`modules/lib/nxp_iot_agent/ex/inc/iot_agent_demo_config.h`
    (the relevant macros are enclosed by "doc: MQTT required modification - start" and "doc: MQTT required modification - end").
    Details on the different configuration options are explained in the file.

    The values for the EdgeLock 2GO object ids can optionally also be set in the prj.conf file like this:
    ``CONFIG_$SERVER$_SERVICE_KEY_PAIR_ID=0x081000``
    ``CONFIG_$SERVER$_SERVICE_DEVICE_CERT_ID=0x080100``

    When creating the secure objects on EdgeLock 2GO, Custom policies should be chosen.
    Additionally for the ECC key pair following options should be selected:
    - Device Lifecycle should match the lifecycle of the device on which the application will run
    - Permitted algorithm should be set to ECDSA SHA 256
    - SIGN HASH usage should be selected
    For the X.509 certificate following options should be selected:
    - Device Lifecycle should match the lifecycle of the device on which the application will run
    - EXPORT usage should be selected

2.  Provide the Wi-Fi access point credentials:

    in :zephyr_file:`modules/lib/nxp_iot_agent/ex/src/network/iot_agent_network_zephyr_wifi.c`
    ``#define AP_SSID``
    ``#define AP_PASSWORD``

    These values can optionally also be set in the prj.conf like this:
    ``CONFIG_AP_SSID="YOUR_SSID"``
    ``CONFIG_AP_PASSWORD="YOUR_PASSWORD"``
    If these are set in the prj.conf, then it will override the value of defines
    in :zephyr_file:`modules/lib/nxp_iot_agent/ex/src/network/iot_agent_network_zephyr_wifi.c`.
    Furthermore, these values can be set as environment variables, but the values in prj.conf have
    most precedence. Set as environment variable using same names CONFIG_AP_SSID and CONFIG_AP_PASSWORD.

3.  To properly derive die-individual encryption and authentication keys used for provisioning of EdgeLock 2GO Secure Objects,
    the secure boot mode should be enabled and the hash of the OEM FW Authentication key (RKTH) loaded in the One Time Programming (OTP) fuses
    of the device. The enablement of secure boot requires the application image downloaded to the chip to be signed with the OEM FW Authentication key.
    Additionaly, if the example is supposed to run in the OEM CLOSED life cycle (typical for production SW),
    the image needs to be encrypted with the OEM FW encryption key and loaded as an Secure Binary container (SB3.1).
    Details on how to enable secure boot, sign and encrypt the image, deal with different lifecycles are included
    in the Application note AN13813 "Secure boot on RW61x", downloadable from
    https://www.nxp.com/products/wireless-connectivity/wi-fi-plus-bluetooth-plus-802-15-4/wireless-mcu-with-integrated-tri-radio-1x1-wi-fi-6-plus-bluetooth-low-energy-5-3-802-15-4:RW612
    in the "Secure Files" section.

    Zephyr build process supports automated signing and merging of images which will allow the example to run on secure boot enabled sample
    in OEM OPEN lifecycle; encryption and SB3.1 container creation are not covered. As already described in the introduction,
    the example is split in SPE and NSPE images, for this reason some extra steps needs to be done to create the image which can run on the device:
    1. The bootheader needs to be removed from the SPE image
    2. The resulting image from first step has to be merged with the NSPE image
    3. The resulting image from step 2 must be signed with the OEM FW authentication key
    The automated signing and merging process requires SPSDK to be installed and configured on the host PC (SPSDK documentation:
    https://spsdk.readthedocs.io/en/1.6.1/usage/installation.html). After the SPSDK is successfully installed and the path to its executable correctly set
    under the PATH environmental variable, some configuration variables needs to be set for automated signing and merging enablement:
    - CONFIG_EL2GO_SIGN_USING_NXPIMAGE: should be enabled (set to y), it will enable automated signing and merging
    - CONFIG_EL2GO_PRIVATE_KEY: this should include the path to the PEM file including the OEM FW authentication key
    - CONFIG_EL2GO_CERT_BLOCK: this should include the path to YAML file which in turns points to the corresponding OEM FW authentication key certificate PEM files.
      The YAML file can be created using SPSDK command described under: https://spsdk.readthedocs.io/en/latest/apps/nxpimage.html#nxpimage-cert-block-get-template.
      From the created template all the fields can be deleted, except:
      - family: leave the value defined in template
      - useIsk: should be set to false
      - signPrivateKey: path to the PEM file including the OEM FW authentication key (same file as defined in CONFIG_EL2GO_PRIVATE_KEY)
      - rootCertificateXFile: 4 variables with X ranging from 0 to 3 which should include path to the 4 PEM certificates corresponding OEM FW authentication key
    For more details about the keys/certificates described in the readme, always refer to the Application Note AN13813 "Secure boot on RW61x"
    There are 2 ways to define the variables and allow Zephyr build command to automatically merge and sign the image:
    1. In prj.conf file:
    ``CONFIG_EL2GO_SIGN_USING_NXPIMAGE=y``
    ``CONFIG_EL2GO_PRIVATE_KEY="PATH_TO_YOUR_KEY_PEM_FILE"``
    ``CONFIG_EL2GO_CERT_BLOCK="PATH_TO_YOUR_CERTIFICATE_YML_FILE"``
    2. If not set in prj.conf file, then set as environment variable using the same names:
       CONFIG_EL2GO_PRIVATE_KEY,CONFIG_EL2GO_CERT_BLOCK,CONFIG_EL2GO_SIGN_USING_NXPIMAGE.
       Please set them to same value as you would in prj.conf file.
    In case both are set, the variables in the prj.conf will take precedence.

4.  Build the application.

5.  Connect the USB-C (FRDM-RW612) or Micro-USB (RD-RW612-BGA) cable to the PC host and the MCU-Link USB port
    (J10 [FRDM-RW612] or J7 [RD-RW612-BGA]) on the board.

6.  Open a serial terminal with the following settings:
    - 115200 baud rate
    - 8 data bits
    - No parity
    - One stop bit
    - No flow control

7.  Flash the application to the board: as explained in the section 3, in typical production use case the example is encrypted
    in a SB3.1 container. Follow the Application note AN13813 "Secure boot on RW61x" to check how to dowload the container to the device.

    In case the example is running on a device in OEM OPEN lifecycle the merged and signed image can be downloaded west flash command through JLink.
    An alterantive is the usage of the SPSDK blhost application which is decoumented under https://spsdk.readthedocs.io/en/stable/examples/blhost/blhost.html.

Building, Flashing and Running
******************************

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: modules/lib/nxp_iot_agent/zephyr/samples/el2go_mqtt_demo
   :board: <board>
   :goals: build flash
   :compact:

Sample Output
=============

.. code-block:: console

    Booting TF-M v2.1.0
    [WRN] This device was provisioned with dummy keys. This device is NOT SECURE
    [Sec Thread] Secure image initializing!
    [INF][PS] Encryption alg: 0x5500200
    [INF][Crypto] Provision entropy seed...
    [INF][Crypto] Provision entropy seed... complete.
    Wi-Fi cau temperature : 34
    MAC Address: MY_MAC_ADDRESS
    PKG_TYPE: BGA
    Set BGA tx power table data
    *** Booting Zephyr OS build b9f5bf039849 ***
    Connecting to SSID 'WIFI SSID' ...
    Using WIFI 6 (802.11ax/HE) @ 5GHz (Channel 149, -52 dBm)
    Using IPv4 address 172.20.10.4 @ Gateway 172.20.10.1 (DHCP)
    Successfully connected to WIFI
    Attempting to connect to service 'awstest-0000000000c4d709-0000' ...
    Received MQTT event CONNACK
    Successfully published
    Successfully published
    Successfully published
    Successfully published
    Received MQTT event DISCONNECT
    Attempting to register service 'azuretest-0000000000c4d70a-0000' ...
    Received MQTT event CONNACK
    Received MQTT event SUBACK
    Received MQTT event PUBLISH
    Device State is now ASSIGNING
    Received MQTT event PUBLISH
    Device State is now ASSIGNING
    Received MQTT event PUBLISH
    Device State is now ASSIGNED
    Received MQTT event DISCONNECT
    Attempting to connect to service 'azuretest-0000000000c4d70a-0000' ...
    Received MQTT event CONNACK
    Successfully published
    Successfully published
    Successfully published
    Successfully published
    Received MQTT event DISCONNECT
    EL2GO MQTT Client successfully finished
